---
title: "International Experience – University of Santiago, Chile"
num: "noticia" ## check latest news
imagem: "/images/noticias/noticia-3.jpeg"
date: "2024-01-31"
lang: "en"
tags: ["International Experience"]
resumo: "Gabrielle Nascimento, an International Relations student, conducted research at the University of Santiago, Chile."
---

Gabrielle Nascimento, a student of International Relations who studies Economic Planning as an anti-capitalist critique, was granted an exchange opportunity at the Universidad de Santiago de Chile. Between August 2023 and January 2024, Gabrielle conducted her research focused on the conceptualization and mapping of debates around economic planning, its practical experiences, and its effectiveness in building socialism.

During her stay in Chile, Gabrielle was present for the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the military dictatorship—an event that marked the end of Salvador Allende’s socialist government with his assassination and the subsequent coup d'état. This period was rich in political and cultural events, offering her a deeper understanding of Latin American realities, Allende’s administration, and the broader history of dictatorships in the region.

These events, along with the courses she attended at the Universidad de Santiago de Chile, significantly enriched her academic and political formation. Additionally, Gabrielle had the opportunity to meet in person one of the authors who first introduced her to the topic of economic planning, Prof. Martin Arboleda. This encounter allowed her to further develop her knowledge and critical insights on the subject of her research.

The experience in Chile was fundamental to the development of Gabrielle’s project, contributing to her academic growth and offering a critical and in-depth perspective on economic planning and its implications for building socialism.
